Update using continuous aggregate chapter (#350)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/continuous-aggregates.md

# Continuous Aggregates

Aggregate queries which touch large swathes of time-series data can
take a long time to compute because the system needs to scan large
amounts of data on every query execution. TimescaleDB continuous
aggregates automatically calculate the results of a query in the
background and materialize the results. Queries to the continuous
aggregate view are then significantly faster as they do not need to

> touch the raw data in the hypertable, instead using the pre-computed

Reviewer: Note that with real-time aggregation, this isn't strictly true anymore. We still touch raw data by default.

not provide one, you will get an error. The `time_bucket` function in
this case has a bucket width of 1 hour.

You can create multiple continuous aggregates on the same
hypertable. For example, you can create a continuous aggregate
`condition_summary_daily` over the data with daily buckets:

```sql
CREATE VIEW conditions_summary_daily
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket(INTERVAL '1 day', time) AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;
```

Continuous aggregates are supported for most aggregates that can be
[parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg], which includes
the normal aggregation functions like `SUM` and `AVG`. However,
aggregates using `ORDER BY` and `DISTINCT` cannot be used with
continuous aggregates since they are not possible to parallelize by
PostgreSQL. In addition, TimescaleDB continuous aggregates does not
currently support the `FILTER` clause even though it is possible to
parallelize but we might add support for this in a future version.

---

### Using Continuous Aggregates [](using)

To select data from a continuous aggregate, use a

> `SELECT` query on the continuous view. For instance, you can get the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SELECT` query on the continuous aggregate view. For instance, you can get the
```

average, minimum, and maximum for the first quarter of 2018 for device
5:

```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE device = 5
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01';
```

Or we can do more complex queries on the aggregates themselves, for instance, if
we wanted to know the top 20 largest metric spreads in that quarter, we could do
something like:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

### Advanced Usage

The `timescaledb.refresh_interval` option controls how frequently

> a materialization jobs will be launched. Setting a shorter interval will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
materialization jobs will be launched. Setting a shorter interval will
```

> mean materializations happen more frequently but each one consumes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mean materializations happen more frequently but each job consumes
```

background worker resources while it is running.

When querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,
`conditions_summary_daily`) by default you will get a complete view of
the data including both the partially aggregated data and newer,
unaggregated data in the hypertable (for example, `conditions`).

If you, however, want to just get partially aggregated data and not
include recent data that has yet to be materialized, you can set the option
`timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

> >:TIP: You can find the names of all the materialized hypertables by

Reviewer: This tip seems out-of-place. Not clear what purpose it serves because nothing in the context of what is said here requires knowing about the internal tables.

Author: Users are asking about it, so I think it is good to have it in this description. Not sure about the placement in the chapter though. Would prefer to push this to a separate PR.

`FILTER` cannot currently be used with continuous aggregates.

---

### Using Continuous Aggregates [](using)

To select data from the continuous aggregates, you use a normal
`SELECT` query on the continuous view. For instance, you can get the
average, minimum, and maximum for the first quarter of 2018 for device
5:

```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE device = 5
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01';
```

Or we can do more complex queries on the aggregates themselves, for instance, if
we wanted to know the top 20 largest metric spreads in that quarter, we could do
something like:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

### Advanced Usage

When designing continuous aggregates, we wanted to avoid write
amplification since this drastically affect insert rate for
write-heavy time-series workloads. As a result, data is aggregated
into a materialized hypertable (one for each continuous aggregate
view) containing partial aggregates trailing the underlying hypertable
(the table `conditions` in the example above).

> Each continuous aggregate has a *bucket width* that comes from the

Author: Yes, it is confusing and I am trying to figure out how the "raw" query handles the `refresh_lag`, which is not very clear. (See the discussion on Slack.) It is a necessary condition that the raw part of the query honor whatever value is set for `refresh_lag` so that data is not counted twice even if the user set the wrong value.

In the shorter term, we need to document this option and how it behaves for 1.7. If there are limitations, then we should make that clear.

`time_bucket` call in the view definition. This is the granularity
that is updated and typically new data is added to the last bucket. By
not updating the last bucket of the view, we can avoid having to
refresh the last bucket multiple times as new data comes in. Buckets
older than that will be aggregated, but since new data does not
(normally) arrive into those bucket, an aggegate for the bucket is

> computed only once, which avoid write amplification.

Author: Rewrote it some to use a "more" active tense.

> However, when querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,

Author: Hmmm... required some rewrite, but tried something.

`conditions_summary_daily`) you typically want to get a complete view
of the data, including the data in the underlying table, so the view
will get one part of the result from the materialized hypertable and
one part from the underlying table.

> If you, however, want to just get the data from the materialized

Author: Moved it to the beginning...

> hypertable, and not include data from the underlying table, you can

Author: Removed the mention of materialized table in this paragraph. It is discussed later though.

set the option `timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER
VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

As noted above, the materialized hypertable lag behind the underlying
table by one bucket width (parameter `bucket_width` in the
`time_bucket` function of the view). However, you can change this lag
to either increase it (or decrease it) by setting the value for the
`timescaledb.refresh_lag` option of the view and the background worker
will attempt to materialize everything before `refresh_lag` +

> `bucket_width`.

Reviewer: My main concern still applies. There must be some notion of "current time", which is lacking here.

For example, using `conditions_summary_hourly` above, the bucket width
is 1 hour, so if we set the `refresh_lag` to 1 hour, the

> materialization will be 2 hours behind the current time.

Reviewer: Again, why don't we have just `refresh_lag` that we set to 2 hours?

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (

>   timescaledb.refresh_lag = '1 hour'

Reviewer: Here the user sets `refresh_lag` to 1 hour but in reality we do not honor this setting and instead the lag will be something else underneath-the-hood. In this case 2 hours, but could be something else depending on time_bucket.

I am pointing this out because there is such an obvious UX issue here and I am wondering if we can handle this better?

);
```

Lowering the `refresh_lag` parameter means that the aggregates follow
inserts more closely, but can cause write amplification that might
degrade insert performance. You can also set `refresh_lag` to negative
values, so if you set `refresh_lag` to `-bucket_width` will make the

> continuous aggregate read all data as it is added.

Reviewer: Again, this doesn't seem up-to-date with real-time aggs. 

If I set a large `refresh_lag`, does that mean that a larger portion of the query on the view will be fetched using the "raw hypertable"?  I guess this is lost in the discussion about write amplification.

Reviewer: I see no changes here.

To clarify, if I set `refresh_lag=-bucket_width` and `timescaledb.materialized_only = false`, does that mean that the "raw" part of the union query  effectively returns no tuples because everything is materialized?

This relationship isn't clear.

It seems to me that `refresh_lag` determines the size of the interval covered by the "raw" query when this is a real-time aggregate. This seems like an important detail that is lost.

Author: Added a paragraph about it.

The `timescaledb.refresh_interval` option controls how frequently materialization
jobs will be launched. Setting a shorter interval will mean

> materializations happen more "eagerly" but can consume background

Reviewer: ```suggestion
materializations happen more frequently but can consume background
```

       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;
```

A `time_bucket` on the time partitioning column of the underlying
hypertable is required in all continuous aggregate views. If you do
not provide one, you will get an error. The `time_bucket` function in
this case has a bucket width of 1 hour.

You can create multiple continuous aggregates on the same
hypertable. For example, you can create a continuous aggregate
`condition_summary_daily` over the data with daily buckets:

```sql
CREATE VIEW conditions_summary_daily
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT device,
       time_bucket('1 day::interval, "time") AS bucket,
       AVG(temperature),
       MAX(temperature),
       MIN(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY device, bucket;
```

Continuous aggregates are supported for any aggregates that can be
[parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg]. This includes
most aggregates distributed with PostgreSQL, but in particular `ORDER
BY` and `DISTINCT` cannot be used with continuous aggregates since
they are not possible to parallelize by PostgreSQL. In addition,

> `FILTER` cannot currently be used with continuous aggregates.

Reviewer 2: This section is a bit weird cause it mixes several things. It talks about the supported aggregates and then other query limitations and then back to filtered aggregates not being support.

Author: This I didn't follow. It start with discussing what is supported, and then highlights what is not supported mentioning, in particular, `ORDER BY`, `DISTINCT`, and `FILTER`. Not sure what kind of changes you want to see.

---

### Using Continuous Aggregates [](using)

> To select data from the continuous aggregates, you use a normal

Reviewer 2: i would drop the `normal` here

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To select data from the continuous aggregates, use a
```

WHERE device = 5
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01';
```

Or we can do more complex queries on the aggregates themselves, for instance, if
we wanted to know the top 20 largest metric spreads in that quarter, we could do
something like:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

### Advanced Usage

When querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,
`conditions_summary_daily`) you want to get a complete view of the
data including both the partially aggregated data the data in the
underlying table (for example, `conditions`). For this reason, the
view will get one part of the result from the partially aggregated
data and one part from the underlying table.

If you, however, want to just get the data from the materialized
hypertable, and not include data from the underlying table, you can
set the option `timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER
VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

When designing continuous aggregates, we wanted to avoid write

> amplification since this drastically affect insert rate for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
amplification since this drastically affects the insert rate for
```

write-heavy time-series workloads. As a result, data is aggregated
into a materialized hypertable (one for each continuous aggregate
view) containing partial aggregates trailing the underlying hypertable
(the table `conditions` in the example above).

>:TIP: You can find the name of the materialized hypertable in the
>`timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates`.
>
> ```sql
> postgres=# SELECT view_name, materialization_hypertable
> postgres-#   FROM timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates;
>          view_name         |            materialization_hypertable             
> ---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------
>  conditions_summary_hourly | _timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_30
>  conditions_summary_daily  | _timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_31
> (2 rows)
> ```

> Each continuous aggregate use the *bucket width* of the `time_bucket`

Reviewer: I guess this section is what it is now and we'll keep it. But I don't understand what purpose it serves and how it helps users. It's basically describing our internal implementation and if this level of understanding is needed to use continuous aggregates properly, then we've failed.

We generally don't  go into this depth about other features, for good reasons.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each continuous aggregate uses the *bucket width* of the `time_bucket`
```

re-aggregation is automatic, it doesn’t add any maintenance burden to your
database.

In contrast to using triggers to update the materialized view,
continuous aggregations are designed to run in the background and have
a minimal impact on the insertion rate by avoiding write
amplification.

**How it Works:** The continuous aggregate collects partially
aggregated data into a *materialization hypertable* for the continuous
aggregate using a *materialization job* that takes raw data from the
underlying hypertable and writes it to the materialization hypertable.

Querying the *continuous aggregate view* will then compute the final
result using the materialization hypertable and the underlying
hypertable and return the result to you.

On changes to the underlying hypertable, the continuous aggregate

> will automatically decide what data need to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
will automatically decide what data needs to be
```

Author: Handled.

most aggregates distributed with PostgreSQL, but in particular `ORDER
BY` and `DISTINCT` cannot be used with continuous aggregates since
they are not possible to parallelize by PostgreSQL. In addition,
`FILTER` cannot currently be used with continuous aggregates.

---

### Using Continuous Aggregates [](using)

To select data from the continuous aggregates, you use a normal
`SELECT` query on the continuous view. For instance, you can get the
average, minimum, and maximum for the first quarter of 2018 for device
5:

```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE device = 5
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01';
```

Or we can do more complex queries on the aggregates themselves, for instance, if
we wanted to know the top 20 largest metric spreads in that quarter, we could do
something like:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

### Advanced Usage

The `timescaledb.refresh_interval` option controls how frequently
materialization jobs will be launched. Setting a shorter interval will

> mean materializations happen more frequently but can consume

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
mean materializations happen more frequently but each one consumes
```

background worker resources while it is running.

When querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,

> `conditions_summary_daily`) you want to get a complete view of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`conditions_summary_daily`) by default you will get a complete view of the
```

> data including both the partially aggregated data the data in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
data including both the partially aggregated data and newer, unaggregated data in the
```

> underlying table (for example, `conditions`). For this reason, the

Reviewer 3: You can remove the last sentence with the above changes.

Author: Removed.

view will get one part of the result from the partially aggregated
data and one part from the underlying table.

If you, however, want to just get the data from the materialized
hypertable, and not include data from the underlying table, you can
set the option `timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER
VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

> Continuous aggregates is designed to avoid write amplification since

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Continuous aggregation is designed to avoid write amplification since
```

> this drastically affect insert rate for write-heavy time-series

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
this drastically affects insert rate for write-heavy time-series
```

workloads. For that reason, data is aggregated into a materialized
hypertable (one for each continuous aggregate view) containing partial
aggregates trailing the underlying hypertable (the table `conditions`
in the example above).

>:TIP: You can find the name of the materialized hypertable in the
>`timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates`.
>
> ```sql
> postgres=# SELECT view_name, materialization_hypertable
> postgres-#   FROM timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates;
>          view_name         |            materialization_hypertable             
> ---------------------------+---------------------------------------------------
>  conditions_summary_hourly | _timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_30
>  conditions_summary_daily  | _timescaledb_internal._materialized_hypertable_31
> (2 rows)
> ```

Each continuous aggregate use the *bucket width* of the `time_bucket`
(given by the parameter `bucket_width`) function in the view
definition to decide what to update. Time-series data is typically
ordered, so it is usually the last bucket that gets most of the

> updates. Recomputing the last bucket when new data arrives negate many

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
updates. Recomputing the last bucket when new data arrives negates many
```

> of the benefits of using continuous aggregate. Older buckets rarely

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of the benefits of using continuous aggregation. Older buckets rarely
```

get updated and are usually aggregated only once.

As a result, the materialized hypertable lags behind the underlying
table by one bucket and up to an additional `refresh_interval` as a
result of the job not running continuously. However, you can change
this lag to either increase it (or decrease it) by setting the value
for the `timescaledb.refresh_lag` option of the view and the
background worker will attempt to materialize everything before
`refresh_lag` + `bucket_width`.

For example, using `conditions_summary_hourly` above, the bucket width
is 1 hour, so if we set the `refresh_lag` to 1 hour, the
materialization will be 2 hours behind the current time.

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
  timescaledb.refresh_lag = '1 hour'
);
```

Lowering the `refresh_lag` parameter means that the aggregates follow
inserts more closely, but can cause write amplification that might
degrade insert performance. You can also set `refresh_lag` to negative
values, so if you set `refresh_lag` to `-bucket_width` will make the
continuous aggregate read all data as it is added.

The `timescaledb.max_interval_per_job` determines the maximum amount

> of data processed in a single job. If there are more work to do after

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of data processed in a single job. If there is more work to do after
```

Note that the continuous aggregate view will not change, but this can
be an advantage if queries on the continuous aggregate is *very*
frequent since that would avoid sending repeated queries to the
underlying table at high frequency. Changing the value of
`refresh_lag` is, however, not recommended and should usually be
avoided since it is typically not necessary.

The `timescaledb.max_interval_per_job` determines the maximum amount
of data processed in a single job. If there is more work to do after
the job completes, another job will be spawned immediately. This means
that the part of the data processed by previous jobs will be available
even before the materialization is fully caught up.

This parameter can be useful when a continuous aggregate is created on
a hypertable that already contains data and the materialization job
needs to catch up.

The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter controls
how modifications (inserts, updates, and deletes) will trigger update
of the continuous aggregate. If modifications are done to the
underlying table, it invalidates already computed parts of the
aggregate and the aggregate has to be updated.

> By default, all modifications trigger a update of the continuous

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, all modifications trigger an update of the continuous
```

re-aggregation is automatic, it doesn’t add any maintenance burden to your
database.

**How it Works:** A *materialization background job* regularly takes raw data from the
hypertable and computes a partial aggregate that it stores (materializes) in the continuous aggregate.

Querying the *continuous aggregate view* will then compute an up-to-date final

> aggregate result by combining the materialized partial aggregate with recent data from the hypertable that has yet to be materialized by the continuous aggregate. By combining raw and materialized data in this way, one  gets accurate and up-to-date results while still enjoying the speedups of pre-computing a large portion of the result.

Reviewer 2: please add line breaks here

Author: Done. Actually, I wrapped all four paragraphs but made no other changes.

Or we can do more complex queries on the aggregates themselves, for instance, if
we wanted to know the top 20 largest metric spreads in that quarter, we could do
something like:
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions_summary_daily
WHERE max - min > 1800
  AND bucket >= '2018-01-01' AND bucket < '2018-04-01'
ORDER BY bucket DESC, device_id DESC LIMIT 20;
```

### Advanced Usage

The `timescaledb.refresh_interval` option controls how frequently
a materialization jobs will be launched. Setting a shorter interval will
mean materializations happen more frequently but each one consumes
background worker resources while it is running.

When querying the continuous aggregate view (for example,
`conditions_summary_daily`) by default you will get a complete view of
the data including both the partially aggregated data and newer,
unaggregated data in the hypertable (for example, `conditions`).

If you, however, want to just get partially aggregated data and not
include recent data that has yet to be materialized, you can set the option
`timescaledb.materialized_only` to `true` using `ALTER VIEW`:

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
    timescaledb.materialized_only = true
);
```

> >:TIP: You can find the names of all the materialized hypertable by

Reviewer 2: hypertables

Author: Done.

>querying `timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates`.
>
> ```sql

> > postgres=# SELECT view_name, materialization_hypertable
> > postgres-#   FROM timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> SELECT view_name, materialization_hypertable
>     FROM timescaledb_information.continuous_aggregates;
```

ordered, so it is usually the last bucket that gets most of the
updates. Recomputing the last bucket when new data arrives negates many
of the benefits of using continuous aggregation. Older buckets rarely
get updated and are usually aggregated only once.

As a result, the materialization lags behind by one bucket and up to an additional `refresh_interval` as a
result of the job not running continuously. However, you can change
this lag to either increase it (or decrease it) by setting the value
for the `timescaledb.refresh_lag` option of the view and the
background worker will attempt to materialize everything before
`refresh_lag` + `bucket_width`.

For example, using `conditions_summary_hourly` above, the bucket width
is 1 hour, so if we set the `refresh_lag` to 1 hour, the
materialization will be 2 hours behind the current time.

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
  timescaledb.refresh_lag = '1 hour'
);
```

Lowering the `refresh_lag` parameter means that the materialization
follows the raw data more closely, but can cause write amplification
that might degrade insert performance. The `refresh_lag` can also be

> set to to negative values. For example, setting `refresh_lag` to

Reviewer 2: to to

Author: Done.

`-bucket_width` will make the continuous aggregate materialize new
data as soon as it is available.

The `refresh_lag` parameter controls the balance between the
on-the-fly aggregation and pre-computed aggregation when querying the
continuous aggregate. A lower `refresh_lag` will reduce the amount of
on-the-fly aggregation by more aggressive materialization and a higher
`refresh_lag` will increase the amount of on-the-fly aggregation by
not materializing as agressively.

>:WARNING: Changing the value of `refresh_lag` is not recommended and

> >should be avoided since it rarely is necessary.

Reviewer 2: why is changing refresh_lag not recommended, i think this warning should be removed

Author: Because it is not needed now that we have real-time aggregates?

Reviewer 2: Not needed and not recommended are very different though. If you want to add that its not needed then this should be a TIP and state that setting it won't be needed because of real-time aggregation

Author: I just transformed it into a tip.

for the `timescaledb.refresh_lag` option of the view and the
background worker will attempt to materialize everything before
`refresh_lag` + `bucket_width`.

For example, using `conditions_summary_hourly` above, the bucket width
is 1 hour, so if we set the `refresh_lag` to 1 hour, the
materialization will be 2 hours behind the current time.

```sql
ALTER VIEW conditions_summary_hourly SET (
  timescaledb.refresh_lag = '1 hour'
);
```

Lowering the `refresh_lag` parameter means that the materialization
table follow inserts more closely, but can cause write amplification
that might degrade insert performance. You can also set `refresh_lag`
to negative values, so if you set `refresh_lag` to `-bucket_width`
it will make the continuous aggregate read all data into the
materialization table as it is added, but will cause more writes
into the materailization table, leading to write amplification.

Regardless of the value of `refresh_lag`, the continuous aggregate
view will not be different. However, changing `refresh_lag` can be an
advantage if queries on the continuous aggregate are *very* frequent,
since that would avoid sending repeated queries to the underlying

> table at high frequency.

Reviewer: I am not sure I understand what this whole paragraph is trying to convey. In particular, I don't understand the point about `sending repeated queries`. Are you referring to the materialization or the queries on the raw data? In any case, I am not sure this is needed and we're too much in the weeds here.

I am guessing that you are trying to say something about the balance between querying raw data and materialized data. I suggest focusing on that aspect to avoid getting bogged down in the details:

`
Please note that the refresh_lag parameter controls the balance between on-the-fly aggregation and pre-computed aggregation when querying the continuous aggregate. In other words, a lower refresh_lag will reduce the amount of on-the-fly aggregation by more aggressive materialization. Keep this in mind when trying to set the right refresh_lag for your application.
`

Author: > I am not sure I understand what this whole paragraph is trying to convey. In particular, I don't understand the point about `sending repeated queries`. Are you referring to the materialization or the queries on the raw data? In any case, I am not sure this is needed and we're too much in the weeds here.

I'm referring to the application query frequency. This description is somewhat redundant but how do we motivate `refresh_lag`? If we do not provide an argument, we will get a lot of questions on what purpose it serves, especially since we are ignoring details of the implementation.
> 
> I am guessing that you are trying to say something about the balance between querying raw data and materialized data. I suggest focusing on that aspect to avoid getting bogged down in the details:
> 
> `Please note that the refresh_lag parameter controls the balance between on-the-fly aggregation and pre-computed aggregation when querying the continuous aggregate. In other words, a lower refresh_lag will reduce the amount of on-the-fly aggregation by more aggressive materialization. Keep this in mind when trying to set the right refresh_lag for your application.`

That might work, let me ponder about it.

Author: Tried something along those lines. Asking the user to keep something in mind without giving sufficient information will just be frustrating, so I removed that.

>:WARNING: Changing the value of `refresh_lag` is not recommended and
>should be avoided since it rarely is necessary.

The `timescaledb.max_interval_per_job` determines the maximum amount
of data processed in a single job. If there is more work to do after
the job completes, another job will be spawned immediately. This means
that the part of the data processed by previous jobs will be available
even before the materialization is fully caught up.

This parameter can be useful when a continuous aggregate is created on
a hypertable that already contains data and the materialization job
needs to catch up.

The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter controls
how modifications (inserts, updates, and deletes) will trigger update
of the continuous aggregate. If modifications are done to the

> underlying table, it invalidates already computed parts of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hypertable, it invalidates already computed parts of the
```
